>>> Top of the hour.
I'm John Berman with Kate Bolduan and Sara
Sidner.
We just learned Israel has a government in
the war cabinet, this is Benjamin Netanyahu
who made the announcement moments ago all
of this as hundreds of thousands Israeli reservists
are staged outside Gaza.
Let's get right to become Anderson who is
in tel aviv who can explain this shift inside
the government and what it means.
Becky?
>> This is really important.
What we understand is that these discussions
have now being on for some days, and I have
to say there was some speculation.
We got this news yesterday, but clearly, these
negotiations on who is in this unity government
and particularly in what will be this war
cabinet have been very, very difficult, but
as we
[10:02:06 AM]
very difficult, but as we understand it now,
this is Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister,
in unity now in a coalition government in
a car cabinet with Benny Gantz who is the
leader of the national unity party and opposition
leader and former defense minister, of course,
and the defense minister Yoav Gallant this
is an emergency situation that is being addressed
now by those who have experience of war in
government here.
What isn't clear is what the makeup of this
wider group will be and sources have been
telling me that there has been much discussion
and demands made by those in opposition that
the right wing ministers, the finance and
security ministers being veer, will not be
part of
[10:03:09 AM]
being veer, will not be part of it.
All we know at this time is that Benjamin
Netanyahu is now in unity with Benny Gantz
and the defense minister here gallant to to
address what happens next and the sense is
here that what you didn't have in the cabinet,
in the government until Saturday morning was
experience.
And what you need is Spencer and authority
of characters in position who reflect the
unity of -- of the Israelis.
I am being told now, I am just getting reporting
on this.
This is an emergency cabinet, a war cabinet
at this point.
>> Becky, for those who -- I mean, who aren't
familiar with the players within Israeli politics
so much, just some
[10:04:10 AM]
politics so much, just some background here
of what a G deal this is as you describe it
because these are political parties and these
are men who are until now, deeply hostile
with each other and it does underline the
scale of the crisis and how much has changed
in Israel since Saturday.
Just the background, if you can offer kind
of -- Earth shattering is what Saturday was
with the hamas terror attack and this as a
response to it.
Just the perspective on that.
>> If we step back and consider what's going
on for months and months as being this deep,
deep division and reflected on the streets
of tel aviv and reflected in this country
with hundreds of thousands of Israelis demonstrating
and
[10:05:11 AM]
Israelis demonstrating and protesting against
what has been Israel's most right-wing government
ever.
This sense now that there is an absolute need
to bring those who are running this country
together in a war cabinet that can now address
the security concerns that Israel now face
Wes experience.
There has been much talk around the judicial
reform about how Benjamin Netanyahu and his
right wing have want been focused on what
Israelis themselves believe is important for
them and on Saturday morning, you know, that
was revealed.
Security and protection.
Where was -- why was there such a failure
of intelligence?
Why is it now that Israelis feel such a sense
of insecurity and
[10:06:12 AM]
such a sense of insecurity and vulnerability?
And it was to the prime minister, to organize
around him, to ensure now the fingers of blame
are pointed to him squarely on what happens
going forward and now the crucial nature of
what is in play here.
The complexity of what happens next with regard
of any incursion, ground incursion into gaza.
The sense now that the decisionses that are
made here in Israel about what happens in
the days and weeks ahead should not be left
to a government that, frankly, didn't have
the experience in cabinet to address these
issues.
So that now looks like the makeup that we
have in what is this new war cabinet, if I
can describe it as such with the current defense
minister, the
[10:07:13 AM]
current defense minister, the former defense
minister Benny Gantz and Benjamin Netanyahu
and heading up the decision making for the
state of Israel to address, as I say, the
complexities of what happens next.
Let's just consider those.
They have a ground incursion on the table.
They have described by the idf saturated the
southern border with troops no in anticipation,
one assumes, of a ground incursion.
We're not seeing that as of yet, but the complexities
we've been reporting now for hours in that
you have these hostages being held in various
locations as described by hamas around gaza
and then the wider story which is the plight
of the Palestinians who are in gaza.
We have a thousand dead and a total siege
of gaza and hospitals being bombed and no
fuel now to the palace station
[10:08:17 AM]
fuel now to the palace station there.
Palestinians do work with H generators in
gaza.
So there will be some generation of electricity
and provided by generators, but you know,
considering what it is that Israel faces is
decision making now and it has been clear
for some time that there was a need for -- I
don't want to call it levelheadedness, but
experience, and this will be -- this will
be demands from the outside -- from the international
community, from capitals around the world,
particularly from Washington demands that
this war cabinet